Which of the following is not a classical model of information retrieval?
- Boolean
+ Cluster
- Probabilistic
- Vector-space


Which of the following is not file hosting service?
- One Drive
- Google Drive
- Live Drive
+ Xbox Live


Research method based on the consensus opinions of panel of experts and judgements is known as:
- Historical method
- Case study method
+ Delphi method
- Interview method


DELNET was initially supported by:
- RRRLF
+ NISSAT
- NIC
- INSDOC


International Standard Name Identifier (ISNI) consists of:
- 10 digits
- 12 digits
- 13 digits
+ 16 digits


Positive Correlation occurs when:
- Two variables move in opposite direction
- Both variables move in a zigzag way
+ Two variables move in the same direction
- Both variables are constant


Which of the following is a new class of micro documents?
- Conventional
- Non-Conventional
+ Neo-Conventional
- Meta-Documents

- According to Dr. S.R. Ranganathan, the "Father of Library Science" in India, Neo-Conventional documents are specifically described as a "new class of micro-documents". These documents typically record specialized, specific information and have evolved alongside modern science and technology.


Paper was Invented in:
+ China
- India
- Egypt
- Ninveh


The biggest library in the world is:
- National Library
- Viniti
- British Library
+ Library of Congress


OPAC expansion is:
- On-line Public Access Center
- On-line Public and Academic Catalogue
+ On-line Public Access Catalogue
- On-line Private Access Catalogue


JSTOR is an online system for:
- Archiving and accessing biographical works
- Archiving and accessing reference works
+ Archiving and accessing academic journals
- None of the above


Which of the following is not a work of Dr. S. R. Ranganathan?
- Five laws of Library Science
- Colon Classification
+ Public Library Act
- Classified Catalogue Code


Survey data is considered under which source of information:
+ Primary
- Secondary
- Tertiary
- Both Primary & Secondary


Which of the following is not covered by Intellectual Property Rights?
- Trademarks
- Copyright
+ Thesaurus
- Patents


Which of the following is used as a tool for digital identification of a researcher?
- ORCID
- DOI
- Researcher ID
+ Both (A) and (C)


National Union Catalogue of Scientific Serials in India is developed by:
- INFLIBNET
- National Information Center
+ NISCAIR
- DRTC


Which of the following is an open-source institutional repository software?
- Dspace
- Greenstone
- Eprints
+ All of the above


The agency in India responsible for assigning ISSN is:
- National Library, Kolkata
- INFLIBNET
+ NISCAIR
- RRRLF


Which of the following is not true in context to plagiarism?
- Submitting someone else work as their own
- Using quotes but not citing the source
- Inaccurately citing the source
+ Providing proper citation with a non-standard citation style



RDF stands for:
- Reference Description Framework
- Resource Data Framework
- Research Data Frame
+ Resource Description Framework


Impact Factor is calculated on the basis of:
- Number of articles downloaded from a journal
- Number of articles published and downloaded
- Number of citations received by a journal
+ Number of articles published and citation received


LISA: Library and Information Science Abstracts is a product of:
- EBSCO Information Service
- Palgrave Macmillan
- H. W. Wilson
+ ProQuest


Identify the correct order of evolution in the following:
- Papyrus, Clay Tablet, Paper, Magnetic Tape
+ Clay Tablet, Papyrus, Vellum, Paper
- Paper, Clay Tablet, Vellum, Papyrus
- Magnetic Tape, Paper, Papyrus, Clay Tablet


Entropy is a measure of:
- Degree of relevance of information
- Quantity of irrelevant information
+ Degree of uncertainty in information
- Degree of certainty in information


Cost benefit analysis means:
- Value for money
- Performance evaluation based on cost
- Finding out unit cost
+ Performance evaluation based on inputs

- In the context of economic and educational planning (such as in IGNOU's MDE-417 and Unit 1: Cost Analysis of Distance Education), Cost-Benefit Analysis (CBA) is a method for analyzing the relationship between inputs (costs) and outputs/outcomes (benefits) in monetary terms.


'Libraries as Gateways to Knowledge' is the title of the document:
- National Information Policy, 1986
- Information Technology Act, 2000
+ National Knowledge Commission on Libraries, 2007
- None of the above


Which Indian University first started Master of Library Science program:
- Aligarh Muslim University
- Madras university
+ Delhi University
- None of the above


'Right book to the right reader at right time' is a principle given by:
- Ranganathan
- Dewey
+ Drury
- None of the above

- "To provide the right book to the right reader at the right time" is a fundamental principle of library book selection given by Francis K.W. Drury in his book Book Selection, published in 1930.


The concept of 'Paperless Society' was first given by:
- Derek Austin
+ F. W. Lancaster
- Jesse H. Shera
- Maurice F. Taube


Dublin Core is associated with:
+ Digitization
- Research
- Cataloguing
- Classification

- Dublin Core (15 Core Elements) is a widely used metadata standard designed for describing digital and physical resources (webpages, images, documents) to improve information discovery, searchability, and management. It is maintained by the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative (DCMI) and was developed for cross-domain resource description. It is an established standard (ISO 15836) ensuring global consistency


Select the word that is closest in meaning to the word 'reclusive':
+ Solitary
- Distinct
- Hostile
- Lonely


Which of the sequence is in ascending order?
- Bytes, Gigabytes, Megabytes, Terabytes
+ Bytes, Megabytes, Gigabytes, Terabytes
- Bytes, Terabytes, Megabytes, Gigabytes
- Megabytes, Bytes, Terabytes, Gigabytes


Which national agency in India is assigning the ISBN?
+ Raja Ram Mohan Roy National Education Resource Centre
- Delhi Public Library
- Federation of Publishers in India
- National Library of India


What is the primary function of the Technical Section in a library?
- To digitize user accounts
- To maintain library equipment
+ To catalogue and classify books
- To do surveillance on users


Who operates the National Digital Library of India?
- IIT, Mumbai
- IIT, Delhi
+ IIT, Kharagpur
- IIT, Kanpur


What is the main feature of faceted classification?
- It lists all possible subjects
+ It uses facets to create class numbers
- It uses a single schedule
- It does not allow synthesis


Among the following which one is a citation Index?
+ Science Citation Index
- Author Citation Index
- Foreign Citation Index
- Research Citation Index


What is the main objective of INSDOC?
+ To provide documentation and information services
- To promote library services globally
- To develop new technologies
- To enhance Library economic growth


What is the purpose of the UNESCO Public Library Manifesto?
- To redefine the role of national libraries
- To define the role special libraries
+ To outline the objectives and services of public libraries
- To promote international library cooperation

- The primary purpose of the UNESCO Public Library Manifesto is to outline the objectives and services of public libraries. It defines the public library as a "living force for education, culture, and information" and acts as a guiding document for free, equal access to information for all users.


What is the purpose of weeding in library maintenance?
- To remove damaged materials
- To manage library subscriptions
+ To remove outdated or irrelevant materials
- To handle library events


What is a common barrier to effective communication?
- Using multiple communication channels
+ Cultural differences
- Active listening
- Clear message formulation


What is the primary purpose of censorship in media?
- To promote freedom of speech
- To encourage public debate
- To increase media diversity
+ To control the flow of information and ideas


In which Library Service barcode technology is used:
- Stock verification
- Library Security
+ Circulation
- Reference Service


DESIDOC is documentation centre for:
- Indigenous Knowledge
+ Defence Science
- Rural Development
- Khadi & Village Industries


Arrange the following associations in the order of year of establishment:
- SIS, IASLIC, IATLIS, ILA
- IASLIC, ILA, SIS, IATLIS
- ILA, SIS, IASLIC, IATLIS
+ ILA, IASLIC, IATLIS, SIS


Kyoto Protocol is related to
- Ozone depletion
- Hazardous waste
+ Climate change
- Nuclear energy

- The Kyoto Protocol is directly related to Climate change. It is an international treaty that was adopted in 1997 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions (such as carbon dioxide and methane) in order to mitigate global warming and combat climate change. It commits industrialized nations to specific emission reduction targets. 


Patents are:
+ Primary Sources of Information
- Secondary Sources of Information
- Tertiary Sources of Information
- None of the above


Which of the following library science journal is published by Delhi Library Association?
- Information Studies
- Library Progress
+ Library Herald
- Journal of Library and Information Science


The first public library in India was setup in:
- 1910
- 1808
- 1930
+ 1829


RFID Technology is used in:
- Acquisition
- Serial Control
+ Circulation Control
- OPAC


What is the time limit for the first appellate authority to dispose of a first appeal under RTI Act, 2005?
- 15 days
+ 30 to 45 days
- 60 days
- 90 days

- Under Section 19(6) of the RTI Act, 2005, the First Appellate Authority (FAA) is bound by the following timelines: 30 to 45 days: This is the correct option. The Act specifies that an appeal should ideally be disposed of within 30 days of receipt. However, it allows an extension up to a total of 45 days if there are exceptional circumstances, provided the official records the reasons for the delay in writing.


In computer terminology and usage, the term 'Bug' stands for:
- Complete virus
- Error in software selection
+ Error in code
- Error in hardware selection


The client-server TCP/IP protocol used in World Wide Web for the exchange of HTML documents is called:
- Hypertext Transport Protocol
+ Hypertext Transfer Protocol
- File Transfer Protocol
- Internet Protocol Control Protocol


SCOPUS is a:
- Full-text Database
+ Abstract and Citation Database
- Numerical Database
- None of the above


What is an asset registrar of library reading materials called?
- Stock Verification Register
+ Accession Register
- Sheaf Catalogue
- OPAC


The UGC-INFONET consortium programme is handled by:
- NISTADS, New Delhi
- IIT Delhi
- IISc, Bangalore
+ INFLIBNET Centre, Ahmedabad


Which of the following is the ISO standard for library RFID system?
- ISO 28650
+ ISO 28560
- ISO 15396
- ISO 15836

- The primary ISO standard for library RFID systems is the ISO 28560  series ("Information and documentation — RFID in libraries"), which ensures interoperability between different library systems and vendors. It defines the data elements, encoding rules, and best practices for RFID tag implementation, commonly utilizing 13.56 MHz (HF) or UHF frequencies.


Which one of these is currently not a DOI (Digital Object Identifier) Registration Agency?
+ National Information Standards Organization (NISO)
- Crossref
- DataCite
- Publications Office of the European Union (OP)


Which one of this is not an example of Library Service Platform?
+ Koha
- Folio
- Ex Libris Alma
- OCLC WorldShare Management Services

- Koha is technically classified as an Integrated Library System (ILS) rather than a Library Services Platform (LSP).



Find the odd one out.
+ CORAL
- Omeka
- AtoM
- ArchivesSpace