Grey Literature refers to
+ Unpublished Information
- Secret Publication
- Private literature
- Govt Publication


‘Price’ of information is studied under -
+ Economics of information
- Bibliometrics
- Scientometrics
- Information economics


MSET 2013
INSPEC- a bibliographic database deals with ________.
- Philosophy and Ethics
+ Physics and Electronics
- Psychology and Ethics
- Economics and commerce


Which of the following are not used to provide Ready Reference Service
- Bibliography
- Dictionary
+ Journal
- Yearbook


A Programme written in high level language can be converted into machine level instructions by
+ Compiler
- Assembler
- Interpreter
- Linker


In context of Online Search Service, what is 'Madrid Monitor'?
- Database of Spanish Literature
- Database for ArChival Materials
+ Database for International Trademark
- Database for International Monograph

- Madrid Monitor is a Database for international Trademark registrations administered by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). It acts as a comprehensive, free online search tool and tracking system that allows users to monitor the status of international trademark applications or registrations, replacing older tools like ROMARIN and Madrid E-Alert.


Arrange the following in correct order :
(i) Deductive phase
(ii) Empirical phase
(iii) Verification phase
(iv) Hypothesizing phase
- (i), (ii), (iv), (iii)
- (iv), (i), (ii), (iii)
- (iii), (i), (iv), (ii)
+ (ii), (iv), (i), (iii)


RRRLF established in which five year plan
- 6th
+ 4th
- 5th
- 3rd


Which of the following service was acquired by Springshare platform from OCLC in 2019 ?
- Worldshare Management Services
- Worldcat Discovery
+ Question Point
- CONTENTdm


Who is the author of “Subject Catalogue” ?
+ E. J. Coates
- J. W. Metcalfe
- J. Kaiser
- C. A. Cutter


Unesco assisted model public library in India located at
+ Delhi
- Chennai
- Kolkata
- Mumbai


"Quality Control Handbook" (1951) book written by:
- Philip B Crosby
- Walter A Shewhart
+ Joseph M Juran
- W Edward Deming


In which year J. Kaiser developed "Systematic indexing"?
+ 1911
- 1876
- 1938
- 1891


Buying and selling in the marketing functions are categorized as
- Distribution functions
+ Exchange functions
- All of the above
- Facilitating functions


TQM was propounded by
+ Walter A Shewart
- Henry Fayol
- Elton Mayo
- Luther Gullick


The subject Research Methodology has been formed by which of the following
- Cluster
+ Distillation
- Fusion
- Fission


From which year UDC Consortium (UDCC) assumed ownership of UDC?
+ 1992
- 1985
- 1989
- 1990


Headquarter of International Translation Centre Situated at
- Newyork
- Geneva
+ Delft
- Paris


What do you know about management?
- It is a collective process.
- It is a single process.
- Management is a process.
+ It is a process of making collective efforts aimful.


An increase in the level of ‘specificity’ of indexing languages results in increase in
- Recall
- both recall and precision
- Noise
+ Precision

- When an indexing language uses more specific, precise terms to represent the content of a document (rather than broader, more general terms), it improves the ability of the system to retrieve only the most relevant documents, thus raising the precision rate.


The term "Literary Warrant" for book Classification was introduced by
- W.c.b. Sayers
+ Wyndham Hulme
- J D Brown
- H. E. bliss

- The term "Literary Warrant" for book classification was introduced by E. Wyndham Hulme (E.W. Hulme) in 1911. As a librarian at the Patent Office Library in London, Hulme proposed that classes and subjects in a classification scheme should be derived from the existing literature, not from a predetermined philosophical order. 


#TN_SET_2012
Which of the following sources attempts to include all books in English published and available in U.K.?
- British education index
+ British national bibliography
- British humanities index
- British books in print


Who has written the book "the Elements of Library Classification" in 1944
- Melvil Dewey
- Ca Cutter
- WCB sayers
+ Sr ranganathan

- Elements of Library Classification is a foundational library science text written by S.R. Ranganathan, first published in 1959. Based on lectures from 1944 and 1956, it provides a structured introduction to classification principles, technical processes, and the author's Colon Classification theory. 


Public Relations (PR) helps to establish the ______ within a Community.
- image
- position
+ image and position
- service and position

'Koha' has a three layer architecture which divides the software into three different layers. These are:
- Database layer, Programming layer, Delivery layer
- Session layer, Transport layer, Delivery layer
- Architecture layer, Software layer, Backend layer
+ Database layer, Processing layer, Formatting layer


ILSA is an abstracting journal published by
- Clarivate Analytics
- EBSCO
+ IASLIC
- ProQuest


What is the theme of Planner-2024 organised by INFLIBNET?
- Sustainable Libraries in India
- Web 4.0 and Libraries
- AI in Modern Libraries
+ Libraries in AI Era


Who is the author of "A Dictionary of the Anonymous and Pseudonymous Literature of Great Britain"?
+ S. Halkett and J. Laing
- Robert Proctor and Ananya Mangipudi
- Ralf D. Sols
- Jonathan Burner


Which of the following categories of publications are excluded in INB?
(i) Musical scores
(ii) Maps
(iii) First issue of new periodical
(iv) Ephemeral items
- (ii) and (iii) are correct
- All of the above
- (i) and (ii) are correct
+ (i), (ii) and (iv) are correct


Which word was added into "Delivery of Books" Amendment Act 1956
- Periodical
- Magazine
- Journal
+ Newspaper


Which license has became the recommended tool for releasing research data into the public domain?
- Creative Commons Attribution
+ Creative Commons Zero (CCO)
- Open Database License
- Public Domain Mark


UGC NET June 2013
‘Research-in-progress’ database in India is________.
- Vidyanidhi
- Shodhganga
+ Shodhgangotri
- Indian National Depository Library


Vidyanidhi Project Was initiated by which Indian University?
+ University of Mysore
- Banaras Hindu University
- University of Calcutta
- University of Delhi


The Author of "Documentation"
- Jd Brown
- Melvil Dewey
+ Bradford
- Sr ranganathan


Open Journal Access system in India mainly managed by
- Delnet
+ Inflibnet
- NIC
- National Library of India..


The Principle of Local Variation is mainly applicable in
- Circulation
+ Cataloguing
- Acquisition
- Reference service


‘Union List’ is the record of
+ Periodicals available in a group of libraries
- Library members living in a Union Territory
- List of members of a Library Union
- Library unions located in a Union Territory


Annual Convention of INFLIBNET organised to discuss the progress of the library automation and library services is known as
+ CALIBER
- NACLIN
- INFONET
- ISCON


According to Ranganathan the percentage of total money should be spent on reading materials should be
- 25
- 50
+ 40
- 60


Which of the following is NOT a common web-scale discovery service?
- WorldCat Discovery
+ Google Scholar
- ProQuest
- EBSCO Discovery Service


When was the first version of RSS, known as RSS 0.9 released?
- 1996
- 1992
+ 1999
- 1990


Among the following which is not a Data centre of NICNET?
- Pune, Maharashtra
+ Kolkata, West Bengal
- Bhubaneshwar, Odisha
- Hyderabad, Telangana


Which of the following protocol is used for exchange of information on the internet?
- SMTP
+ HTTP
- TCP/IP
- FTP


The invisible web refers to-
- The failure in accessing the web pages
- The telecommunication signals which are not seen
+ That part of the internet, which is hidden from the search engines
- The internet, since we cannot see it


Arrange in order the process of stock rectification and stock verification as suggested by S.R. Ranganathan :
i. Checking with charged tray
ii. Shelf Rectification
iii. Shelf checking
iv. Deciding the Quota
- iii i iv ii
- ii iv i iii
+ iv i ii iii
- iv ii iii i


The standard known as "RDA" is used in libraries for what purpose?
"RDA" नामक मानक का प्रयोग पुस्तकालयों में किस उद्देश्य के लिए किया जाता है?
- Library staff training and professional development / पुस्तकालय स्टाफ प्रशिक्षण और व्यावसायिक विकास
- Library user behaviour analysis and statistics / लाइब्रेरी उपयोगकर्ता व्यवहार विश्लेषण और सांख्यिकी
+ Library cataloguing and resource description / पुस्तकालय सूचीकरण और संसाधन विवरण
- Library building safety and accessibility compliance / पुस्तकालय भवन सुरक्षा और पहुंच अनुपालन


रंगनाथन के अनुसार, एक विश्वविद्यालय पुस्तकालय में प्रति 50 छात्रों पर परिसंचरण अनुभाग में कितने व्यक्ति होने चाहिए?
- एक व्यक्ति
- तीन व्यक्ति
+ यह पाठक द्वारा जारी और लौटाई गई पुस्तकों की संख्या पर निर्भर करता है
- दो व्यक्ति


DELNET was registered as a society in which year?
डेलनेट को एक सोसायटी के रूप में किस वर्ष पंजीकृत किया गया था?
- (A) 1988
+ (B) 1992
- (C) 1996
- (D) 1999